---
slug: whats-new
title: Hey Seam, what's new?
authors: miagobble
tags: [seam]
---

This feels strange to say considering I've never done this before, but yes, hi, this is my first blog post for Seam!

I want to catch you up on what has been happening with this framework lately, what my thinking is, etc.

<!-- truncate -->

First and foremost, you might notice the website looks completely different now. This is because I swapped the framework for documentation and more to Docusaurus. I didn't use this to begin with because I was lazy, to be honest. In fact, the first website was actually built with Carrd, believe it or not! Now, I hope (most) UX issues are fixed for ya. I'll improve this site over time, I just need to learn this framework some more (especially considering I am NOT a web developer, so I'm bad at this).

## Development Recap
Recently, Seam transitioned from the `0.0.3` alpha to `0.1.0` beta, which I would say declares it as more stable. Previously Seam was missing a ton of features and had some massive bugs, but that's all wrapped up now.

I don't want to call this production-ready yet, but that's mostly because I haven't used Seam in production for a large-scale project in a meaningful way. The best I got so far is usage in Slap Battles to support the crate system (specifically the opening animation), since Fusion caused a ton of lag (which Seam fixes).

## What's Next
I think Seam has a good number of features right now, and is very familiar to other frameworks, making it easy to learn. As such, I want to focus more on the documentation and stress-testing.

I have upcoming games releasing eventually, so, shoot, I might try Seam there.

## And uh, that's it...
Sorry I'm bad at this, plus my brain is pooped from working on these docs for a while now, so yeah. I'll make more posts later :3

Have a good day, fellas!