---
slug: 0.3-update
title: v0.3.0 has released!
authors: miagobble
tags: [seam, update]
---

Version 0.3.0 of Seam is here! Included in this update is:
- Removal of `From` and `DeclareComponent`, revamp of components system
- Removal of preset components
- Addition of `GetValue`
- Improvements to the backend
- Fixes to race conditions
- Fixes to crashes and infinite loops
- And an insane number of other fixes

<!-- truncate -->

This version, to put it generously, is a huge step up for Seam. Many of these fixes and changes come from internal feedback sourcing from people that used it in production! I worked closely with these developers to get a dev branch stable and working that meets their needs -- and that dev branch is now the publicly released version v0.3.0.

## Revamped component system

The biggest change to Seam was the complete rethinking of the way components worked. Previously, there was a race condition to declare components, store them memory, and then use them with `From`. This approach was also super limited and unintuitive. Now, you create instances of components by passing the component module directly into `New`, giving you more control. As a bonus, these new components are object-oriented!

I got a ton of feedback regarding components from both @3_F7 and @HappySunChild, with the former developer testing my approach and approving it. You can take a look at how components work by reading the API for [**New**](../docs/API/declarations/New) and [**Component**](../docs/API/declarations/Component)!

In summary, components now work like this:
- Create the component module, containing `Init` and `Construct` methods, as well as any others you optionally want
- Return `Component(Module)`, instead of just `Module`
- Pass in that module to the first parameter of `New`, and make the properties whatever you would like (they are custom, not directly applied)

I also removed preset components from Seam because, well, they feel like bloat. I would rather leave component creation to the developers and the community, who can do it much better than I can.

## Addition of GetValue
`GetValue` is an added declaration that allows you to read any value, including states.

In this example,

```lua
local MyValue = Value(5)

local X = GetValue(5)
local Y = GetValue(MyValue)
```

X and Y are *both* 5. This is a great thing to try if your code may or may not have a state, but you need a value to work with.

## Fixed many, many bugs
I fixed a ton of bugs, and had a headache doing so (you can probably tell if you look at the commit messages, lol).

A summary of fixed bugs include:
- Fixed a C-stack overflow caused by adverse state interactions
- Critical fix for boolean value states
- Typechecking fixes
- Fixes to the way tables in values worked, including a fix to how they wouldn't update
- Rendered is now properly declared as Rendered behind the scenes, not Computed
- Addition of `Value.ValueRaw` for cases that need it (since `Value.Value` got tons of changes for tables)
- Fixed signal triggers not triggering when using `table.insert` on value's value.
- Fixed critical issues with animation states that could cause insane lag or bugs
- Fixed an edge-case error that was caused by declaring children improperly
- Updated the way compute states calculate values, preventing edge-case issues
- And more small stuff!

## Seam's development philsophy remains unchanged
Seam is intended to be an improvement compared to existing UI frameworks, not a headache; this means community feedback will drive the direction of the library, and comes first for considerations on changes. 

A large handful of developers were important to providing feedback to influence these changes, so my gratitude goes out to all of you!

That's all folks, enjoy a more stable and awesome Seam! :3