---
slug: 0.2-update
title: v0.2.0 has released!
authors: miagobble
tags: [seam, update]
---

Version 0.2.0 of Seam is here! Included in this update is:
- Signifigantly improved typechecking
- Added StageGui preset component
- Removed ScaledUIStroke preset component
- Bug fixes and more backend changes

<!-- truncate -->

## The improved typechecking
There are a *lot* of added types, as well as improvements to the way types are implemented behind the scenes.

Let's create an example where we are making a new Value state. Before, the best you could do would be something like this:

```lua
local MyValue = Value(5) -- ok
local Foo : number = MyValue.Value -- ok
local Bar : string = MyValue.Value -- ok
```

Or if you wanted to be *really* fancy, maybe:

```lua
type MyValue = {Value : number}
local MyValue : MyValue = Value(5) -- not ok
local Foo : number = MyValue.Value -- ok
local Bar : string = MyValue.Value -- not ok
```

But now, we have the `Value` type in Seam, so we can do this:

```lua
local MyValue : Seam.Value<number> = Value(5) -- ok
local Foo : number = MyValue.Value -- ok
local Bar : string = MyValue.Value -- not ok
```

Which is great for when you need to be explicit! Feel free to mess around with this and let me know how you feel about it.

## Changes to preset components
To start, I removed `ScaledUIStroke`. Roblox recently made updates to the `UIStroke` instance, making this preset component useless.

Replacing it is `StageGui`, a preconfigured `ScreenGui`. If you were to do this:

```lua
local MyGui = New("ScreenGui", {}, From "StageGui")
```

*MyGui* would have the following properties set:
- `ResetOnSpawn` will be *false*
- `IgnoreGuiInset` will be *true*
- `Parent` will be the player's GUI

Which makes it easy to create, well, stage GUIs.

## The small changes
I made a bunch of small changes behind the scenes, and you shouldn't care about them.

That being said, I did find and fix a memory leak with `Tween`; turns out I suck at variable names when I'm tired and that bit me in the ass.

## Is Seam production-ready yet?
Maybe? I don't want to say yes yet, simply because it hasn't been used on a large-scale project (except for a single component in Slap Battles). For now I'll say no, *but* I am using it in an upcoming large-scale project of mine, so hey, we'll see.

If you use Seam in a big project, let me know! I need to see what issues exist in niche cases so that I can patch them up as soon as possible.

That's it though, enjoy v0.2.0! :3