---
slug: 0.4.0-update
title: v0.4.0 - Moving beyond UI
authors: miagobble
tags: [seam, update]
---

v0.4.0 of Seam evolves this library to not just be for UI, but general purpose. It's now usable on the server and has some changes to the API. As a bonus, the documentation is now complete!

<!-- truncate -->

To summarize, here are the changes made to Seam:
* Removed `MakeSignal()`
* Removed `MakeSymbol()`
* Added `.Looped` to `EventSequence`
* Adjusted `EventSequence` so that keypoints are now an array, with index `1` being the time, and index `2` being the callback. `ValueSource` and `NewValue` have been removed
* Adjusted the backend so that the entirety of Seam works on the server too

Seam has been rebranded to be more general-purpose, meaning it's **no longer just for UI**. Reactive states and other Seam features can be handy in a number of situations outside of UI/UX, so it's best to take advantage of it! Seam now also works on the server, so it can be used there too.

Other than that, the API got modified a bit. `MakeSignal()` and `MakeSymbol()` were removed since it's better practice to just use different libraries for those.

Additionally, `EventSequence` got changed. Read the API docs for more info, but this is an example of what it looks like now:

```lua
local EventSeqeuence = Seam.EventSequence({
	{1, function()
		print("a")
	end},
	
	{2, function()
		print("b")
	end},
	
	{3, function()
		print("c")
	end},
})

EventSeqeuence:Play()
```

Finally, examples and tutorials are now complete, meaning you should no longer find warnings saying there is missing documentation.

And that's it! Enjoy v0.4.0.